Added pseudo parameter module (#137)
aws-samples/cfn101-workshop: workshop/content/basics/templates/pseudo-parameters/_index.md

```yaml
Resources:
  BasicParameter:
    Type: AWS::SSM::Parameter
    Properties:
      Name: dbUsername
      Type: String
      Value: !Ref DatabaseUsername
      Description: SSM Parameter for database username.
```

Next, let’s define the IAM role and policy from where you want to reference the SSM parameter you defined above. Choose to copy content shown next, and paste it in the `Resources` section of the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` file by appending it to the existing file content:

```yaml
  DemoRole:
    Type: AWS::IAM::Role
    Properties:
      AssumeRolePolicyDocument:
        Version: "2012-10-17"
        Statement:
          - Effect: Allow
            Principal:
              Service:
                - lambda.amazonaws.com
            Action:
              - sts:AssumeRole
      Path: /
      Policies:
        - PolicyName: ssm-least-privilege
          PolicyDocument:
            Version: "2012-10-17"
            Statement:
              - Effect: Allow
                Action: ssm:GetParameter
                Resource: '*'

>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

Reviewer: I am sorry, I meant to only suggest to remove leading spaces, and I by mistake suggest a removal of the backticks as well, which needed to stay in place.  Sorry again.

Reviewer: Thank you for adding those back!

    "Statement": [

        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ssm:GetParameters"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:ssm:us-east-1:111122223333:parameter/dbUsername"
        }
    ]
}
```
Let's describe resources you need in your CloudFormation template.

Let’s start by defining a [template parameter](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/parameters-section-structure.html) to be used as the the value of your SSM parameter you'll be defining in the template. You'll start by defining a template parameter called `DatabaseUsername` under the _Parameters_ section. You can then choose to reference this template parameter in the _Resources_ section by using a Ref intrinsic function. Choose to copy content shown next, and paste it in the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` file, by appending it to the existing file content:

```YAML
Parameters:
  DatabaseUsername:
    AllowedPattern: ^[a-z0-9]{5,12}$
    Type: String
    Default: alice
    Description: Value to be used with the dbUsername SSM parameter. The default value is set to 'alice', which you can override when creating a CloudFormation stack.
```

> Next, you will use a simple example of an SSM parameter where you define a parameter `Name` called `dbUsername`, and a `Value` you pass in by referencing template parameter `DatabaseUsername` using Ref intrinsic function. Choose to append the following content to the existing file content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, describe an SSM parameter: choose to set its `Name` property to `dbUsername`, and use `Ref` to reference the `DatabaseUsername` template parameter in the `Value` property. Choose to append the following content to the existing file content:
```

```YAML
Resources:
  BasicParameter:
    Type: AWS::SSM::Parameter
    Properties:
      Name: dbUsername
      Type: String
      Value: !Ref DatabaseUsername
      Description: SSM Parameter for database username.
```

> Next, let’s define the IAM role and policy from where you want to reference the SSM parameter you defined above. Again, choose to copy content shown next, and paste it in the Resources section of the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` file by appending it to the existing file content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, let’s define the IAM role and policy from where you want to reference the SSM parameter you defined above. Choose to copy content shown next, and paste it in the `Resources` section of the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` file by appending it to the existing file content:
```

Instead of using `Resource: '*'` for the `Resource` definition above, you choose to specify the ARN of your parameter that you construct with `AWS::Partition`, `AWS::Region`, and `AWS::AccountId` pseudo parameters. The [Fn::Sub](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-sub.html) intrinsic function lets you substitute variables in an input string with values that you specify: you will use this intrinsic function (shown next in its `!Sub` YAML short form) to substitute values of pseudo parameters mentioned earlier. In the ARN you compose, you also specify the name of your Parameter Store resource, by referencing it with `BasicParameter`, that is the [logical ID](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/resources-section-structure.html) of the Parameter Store resource you described in your template.

Locate the `Policies` section for `DemoRole`; replace the whole line containing `Resource: '*'` with the following:

```yaml
                Resource: !Sub 'arn:${AWS::Partition}:ssm:${AWS::Region}:${AWS::AccountId}:parameter/${BasicParameter}'
```

> Finally, add this section below to the Resources section of the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` template file. This section defines a Lambda function that uses the IAM Role you defined above with permissions to read the SSM parameter, which you also defined above. You will invoke this Lambda function to test if the Lambda function can access the SSM parameter named `dbUsername`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, choose to add the example snippet below to the `Resources` section of the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` template file. The snippet defines a Lambda function that uses the IAM Role you defined above with permissions to read the SSM parameter, which you also defined above. You will invoke this Lambda function to test if the Lambda function can access the SSM parameter named `dbUsername`.
```

              print(f'SSM dbUsername parameter value: {response["Parameter"]["Value"]}')

```

Save the template you have updated with content above. Next, navigate to the AWS CloudFormation [console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation), and choose to create a stack using this template:
* In the CloudFormation console, choose *Create stack With new resources (standard)*.
* In *Prepare template*, choose *Template is ready*.
* In *Template source*, choose *Upload a template file*.
* Choose the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` template.
* Enter a *Stack name*. For example, choose to specify `cfn-workshop-pseudo-parameters`.
* Choose to accept the *Configure stack options* default value, and choose *Next*.
* On the _Review_ page, scroll down to the bottom, and choose to check the box under the following *Capabilities* section: **I acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might create IAM resources.**
* Choose *Create stack*. You can view the progress of the stack being created in the CloudFormation console.
* Wait until the stack creation is complete. Refresh the view in the console until you see your stack to be in the `CREATE_COMPLETE` status.

> ![resources-png](pseudo-parameters/resources.png)

Reviewer: The template has `DemoLambdaFunction`, and the snapshot reads `TestLambdaFunction`.  Please update the screenshot to reflect `DemoLambdaFunction`.

{{% /expand %}}

{{%expand "Want to see the solution?" %}}

First, under the _Parameters_ section, add a template parameter `S3BucketNamePrefix` to be used as the S3 bucket prefix you'll be creating.

```YAML
# Add a template parameter that will let users input a bucket name prefix
  S3BucketNamePrefix:
    AllowedPattern: ^[0-9a-zA-Z]+([0-9a-zA-Z-]*[0-9a-zA-Z])*$
    ConstraintDescription: Bucket name prefix can include numbers, lowercase
      letters, uppercase letters, and hyphens (-). It cannot start or end with a hyphen
      (-).
    Description: The prefix to use for your S3 bucket
    Type: String
    MinLength: 3
    Default: my-demo-bucket
```

Then, add a `DemoBucket` resource under the _Resources_ section of the template.

```yaml
  DemoBucket:
    Type: AWS::S3::Bucket
    Properties:
      BucketName: !Sub '${S3BucketNamePrefix}-${AWS::Region}-${AWS::AccountId}'
```

> See `code/solutions/pseudo-parameters/pseudo-parameters.yaml` for the full solution.

Reviewer: Except for comments such as "add your code" in the workspace template, workspace template and solution template should have the same content, including description for template and parameters, order of resources, et cetera.  Please compare the final workspace template with the solution one, and update the latter.

{{% /expand %}}

Test your solution, to verify it worked as you expected. First, [update the stack](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-direct.html) you created earlier: choose to use the template whose content you updated. Wait until the stack update operation succeeds, and verify your S3 bucket uses the `YOUR_BUCKET_NAME_PREFIX-AWS_REGION-YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID` format.

### Clean up
Follow these steps to clean up created resources:

  * In the CloudFormation console, choose the stack you have created in this lab. For example, choose to specify `cfn-workshop-pseudo-parameters`.
  * Choose **Delete** to delete the stack you created in this lab, and then choose **Delete stack** to confirm.

---
### Conclusion

> Great job! You have learned how to use pseudo parameters to write reusable CloudFormation templates. For more information, see pseudo parameters [documentation page](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great job! You have learned how to use pseudo parameters to write more reusable CloudFormation templates. For more information, see [pseudo parameters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html).
```

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [

        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ssm:GetParameters"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:ssm:us-east-1:111122223333:parameter/dbUsername"
        }
    ]
}
```
Let's describe resources you need in your CloudFormation template.

Let’s start by defining a [template parameter](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/parameters-section-structure.html) you will use as the value of the SSM parameter that you'll define in the template. Start by defining a template parameter called `DatabaseUsername` under the `Parameters` section; next, choose to reference this template parameter in the `Resources` section by using the `Ref` intrinsic function. Choose to copy content shown next, and paste it in the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` file, by appending it to the existing file content:

> ```YAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

Parameters:
  DatabaseUsername:
    AllowedPattern: ^[a-z0-9]{5,12}$
    Type: String
    Default: alice
    Description: Value to be used with the dbUsername SSM parameter. The default value is set to 'alice', which users can override when creating a CloudFormation stack.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Next, describe an SSM parameter: choose to set its `Name` property to `dbUsername`, and use `Ref` to reference the `DatabaseUsername` template parameter in the `Value` property. Choose to append the following content to the existing file content:

> ```YAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

Resources:
  BasicParameter:
    Type: AWS::SSM::Parameter
    Properties:
      Name: dbUsername
      Type: String
      Value: !Ref DatabaseUsername
      Description: SSM Parameter for database username.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

Next, let’s define the IAM role and policy from where you want to reference the SSM parameter you defined above. Choose to copy content shown next, and paste it in the `Resources` section of the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` file by appending it to the existing file content:

```yaml
  DemoRole:
    Type: AWS::IAM::Role
    Properties:
      AssumeRolePolicyDocument:
        Version: "2012-10-17"
        Statement:
          - Effect: Allow
            Principal:
              Service:
                - lambda.amazonaws.com
            Action:
              - sts:AssumeRole
      Path: /
      Policies:
        - PolicyName: ssm-least-privilege
          PolicyDocument:
            Version: "2012-10-17"
            Statement:
              - Effect: Allow
                Action: ssm:GetParameter
                Resource: '*'

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: hi @ravsau - I am sorry, I did not mean to remove the 3 backticks, but only to indent them to the left.  Can you add them back here but with no leading spaces?

Locate the `Policies` section for `DemoRole`; replace the whole line containing `Resource: '*'` with the following:

```yaml
                Resource: !Sub 'arn:${AWS::Partition}:ssm:${AWS::Region}:${AWS::AccountId}:parameter/${BasicParameter}'
```

Finally, choose to add the example snippet below to the `Resources` section of the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` template file. The snippet defines a Lambda function that uses the IAM Role you defined above with permissions to read the SSM parameter, which you also defined above. You will invoke this Lambda function to test if the Lambda function can access the SSM parameter named `dbUsername`.

```yaml
  DemoLambdaFunction:
    Type: AWS::Lambda::Function
    Properties:
      Handler: index.lambda_handler
      Role: !GetAtt DemoRole.Arn
      Runtime: python3.8
      Code:
        ZipFile: |
          import boto3

          client = boto3.client('ssm')

          def lambda_handler(event, context):
              response = client.get_parameter(Name='dbUsername')
              print(f'SSM dbUsername parameter value: {response["Parameter"]["Value"]}')

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Task:** Describe an S3 bucket resource in your template. Add a prefix for your bucket name, and pass this prefix in as a CloudFormation template parameter. Use your template parameter and pseudo parameters to compose the bucket name as in the format mentioned earlier.

{{%expand "Need a hint?" %}}
- See the documentation for [CloudFormation parameters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/parameters-section-structure.html), and define a parameter for your S3 bucket name prefix in your template.
- When composing the bucket name, reference your CloudFormation parameter like you referenced pseudo parameters with the `!Sub` intrinsic function earlier. For example, if your template parameter is `S3BucketNamePrefix`, choose to reference it with the `!Sub` intrinsic function as follows: `!Sub '${S3BucketNamePrefix}'`
{{% /expand %}}

{{%expand "Want to see the solution?" %}}

First, under the _Parameters_ section, add a template parameter `S3BucketNamePrefix` to be used as the S3 bucket prefix you'll be creating.

> ```YAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

  S3BucketNamePrefix:
    Description: The prefix to use for your S3 bucket
    Type: String
    Default: my-demo-bucket
    AllowedPattern: ^[0-9a-zA-Z]+([0-9a-zA-Z-]*[0-9a-zA-Z])*$
    ConstraintDescription: Bucket name prefix can include numbers, lowercase letters, uppercase letters, and hyphens (-). It cannot start or end with a hyphen (-).
    MinLength: 3

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    * Returns the Account ID of the Account you choose to create the stack off of your template.
* [AWS::Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html#cfn-pseudo-param-region)
    * Returns the name of the AWS Region where you choose to create the stack.
* [AWS::Partition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html#cfn-pseudo-param-partition)
    * Returns the name of the AWS partition. The partition name for standard AWS Regions is `aws`; for the China (Beijing and Ningxia) Region is `aws-cn`, and for the AWS GovCloud (US-West) Region is `aws-us-gov`.

For more information on available pseudo parameters, see the [pseudo parameters reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html) in the documentation.

Let’s walk through an example of how to leverage pseudo parameters.

### Start Lab

* Change directory to: `code/workspace/pseudo-parameters`.
* Open the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` file.

> * Copy the code as you go through the topics below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update the content of the template as you follow along steps on this lab.
```

> In the following example, you choose to use [AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html#what-is-a-parameter) to centrally store a configuration information, such as the username for your database. For this, you choose to describe an `AWS::SSM::Parameter` resource in your CloudFormation template where you will store the username value. You then choose to write an IAM policy to describe action(s) you wish to grant to an AWS [Lambda function](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/) you will create and use to consume your parameter store value. You choose to start with describing your IAM policy, where you reference the SSM parameter you create: this will require you to know the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the SSM parameter. First, you check the return values section for the resource (the SSM parameter in this case): in the relevant [documentation page](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ssm-parameter.html#aws-resource-ssm-parameter-return-values), you see that `Ref` returns the parameter name, and `Fn::GetAtt` returns the type and the value. Since the ARN is not available as an output value for that resource type today, you can choose to leverage pseudo parameters to construct the ARN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you choose to use [AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html#what-is-a-parameter) to centrally store a configuration information, such as the username for your database. For this, you choose to describe an `AWS::SSM::Parameter` resource in your CloudFormation template where you will store the username value. You then choose to write an IAM policy to describe action(s) you wish to grant to an [AWS Lambda function](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/) you will create and use to consume your parameter store value. You choose to start with describing your IAM policy, where you reference the SSM parameter you create: this will require you to know the [Amazon Resource Name](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-arns-and-namespaces.html) (ARN) of the SSM parameter. First, you check the return values section for the resource (the SSM parameter in this case): in the relevant [documentation page](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ssm-parameter.html#aws-resource-ssm-parameter-return-values), you see that `Ref` returns the parameter name, and `Fn::GetAtt` returns the type and the value. Since the ARN is not available as an output value for that resource type today, you can choose to leverage pseudo parameters to construct the ARN.
```

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [

        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ssm:GetParameters"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:ssm:us-east-1:111122223333:parameter/dbUsername"
        }
    ]
}
```
Let's describe resources you need in your CloudFormation template.

First, let’s start by defining your SSM parameter in the template: you will use a simple example of an SSM parameter where you define a parameter `Name` called `dbUsername`, and a `Value` you set to `alice`. Choose to copy content shown next, and paste it in the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` file, by appending it to the existing file content:

```YAML
Resources:
  BasicParameter:
    Type: AWS::SSM::Parameter
    Properties:
      Name: dbUsername
      Type: String
      Value: alice
      Description: SSM Parameter for database username.
```

Next, let’s define the IAM role and policy from where you want to reference the SSM parameter you defined above. Again, choose to copy content shown next, and paste it in the Resources section of the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` file by appending it to the existing file content:

```yaml
  DemoRole:

>     Type: 'AWS::IAM::Role'

Reviewer: Please remove quotes for the type here and in your template files for this lab, for consistency.

```yaml
DemoLambdaFunction:
  Type: AWS::Lambda::Function
  Properties:
    Handler: index.lambda_handler
    Role: !GetAtt DemoRole.Arn
    Runtime: python3.8
    Code:
      ZipFile: |
        import boto3

        client = boto3.client('ssm')

        def lambda_handler(event, context):
            response = client.get_parameter(Name='dbUsername')
            print(f'SSM dbUsername parameter value: {response["Parameter"]["Value"]}')

```

Save the template you have updated with content above. Next, navigate to the AWS CloudFormation [console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation), and choose to create a stack using this template:

* In the CloudFormation console, choose *Create stack With new resources (standard)*.
* In *Prepare template*, choose *Template is ready*.
* In *Template source*, choose *Upload a template file*.
* Choose the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` template.

> * Enter a *Stack name*. For example, cfn-workshop-pseudo-parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enter a *Stack name*. For example, choose to specify `cfn-workshop-pseudo-parameters`.
```

> * Choose to accept the *Configure stack options* default value, choose *Next*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Choose to accept the *Configure stack options* default value, and choose *Next*.
```

* On the _Review_ page, scroll down to the bottom, and choose to check the box under the following *Capabilities* section: **I acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might create IAM resources.**
* Choose *Create stack*. You can view the progress of the stack being created in the CloudFormation console.
* Wait until the stack creation is complete. Refresh the view in the console until you see your stack to be in the `CREATE_COMPLETE` status.

![resources-png](pseudo-parameters/resources.png)

Verify IAM permissions you described work as you expect. Under the _Resources_ tab for the view for your CloudFormation stack, as shown in the picture above, find the `DemoRole` you described with the `pseudo-parameters.yaml` template.

> Choose to follow the link to the Physical ID of the `DemoRole`. Expand the inline policy `ssm-least-privilege` under the section for the policy name.

Author: removed the blank line before the line starting with `Choose to follow the link to the Physical ID`. Let's verify if this is what you meant.

![role-png](pseudo-parameters/role.png)

You should see the IAM policy you described with your CloudFormation template. Verify that the ARN for your parameter is constructed as you expected.

![policy-png](pseudo-parameters/policy.png)

In the _Resources_ tab, you should also find the Lambda function you described with your template.

> To verify the Lambda function has permissions to access the SSM parameter you defined in the template, you'll need to [Deploy and test/invoke the Lambda function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/getting-started-create-function.html#get-started-invoke-manually). Choose to follow the link to the Physical ID of the Lambda function under the _Resources_ tab of CloudFormation stack. To invoke a Lambda function for testing, you'll first need to create a Test event. On the `Test` tab of your Lambda function, give a name to a new Test event in the new event template provided by default. Choose **Save changes** to save your Test event, and then choose **Test** to invoke your Lambda function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify the Lambda function has permissions to access your SSM parameter you defined in the template, you choose to manually [invoke](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/getting-started-create-function.html#get-started-invoke-manually) your Lambda function. Choose to follow the link to the _Physical ID_ of your Lambda function under the _Resources_ tab of CloudFormation stack. To invoke your Lambda function for testing, you'll first need to create a Test event. On the `Test` tab, give a name to a new Test event in the new event template provided by default. Choose **Save changes** to save your Test event, and then choose **Test** to invoke your Lambda function.
```

**Task:** Describe an S3 bucket resource in your template. Add a prefix for your bucket name, and pass this prefix in as a CloudFormation template parameter. Use your template parameter and pseudo parameters to compose the bucket name as in the format mentioned earlier.

{{%expand "Need a hint?" %}}

- See the documentation for [CloudFormation parameters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/parameters-section-structure.html), and define a parameter for your S3 bucket name prefix in your template.
- When composing the bucket name, reference your CloudFormation parameter like you referenced pseudo parameters with the `!Sub` intrinsic function earlier. For example, if your template parameter is `S3BucketNamePrefix`, choose to reference it with the `!Sub` intrinsic function as follows: `!Sub '${S3BucketNamePrefix}'`

{{% /expand %}}

{{%expand "Want to see the solution?" %}}
```YAML

> # Add a template parameter that will let users input a bucket name prefix

Reviewer: Consider breaking out this into 2 code blocks, so that the user can copy and paste from/to `Parameters` and `Resources` sections in 2 steps, and paste each section in the existing example content more easily.

Parameters:
  S3BucketNamePrefix:
    AllowedPattern: ^[0-9a-zA-Z]+([0-9a-zA-Z-]*[0-9a-zA-Z])*$
    ConstraintDescription: Bucket name prefix can include numbers, lowercase
      letters, uppercase letters, and hyphens (-). It cannot start or end with a hyphen
      (-).
    Description: The prefix to use for your S3 bucket
    Type: String
    MinLength: 3
    Default: my-demo-bucket

Resources:
  DemoBucket:

>       Type: 'AWS::S3::Bucket'

Reviewer: Remove single quotes for the value for `Type` here and in template files for this lab, for consistency.

>       Type: AWS::S3::Bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Type: AWS::S3::Bucket
```

>       Properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Properties:
```

>         BucketName: !Sub '${S3BucketNamePrefix}-${AWS::Region}-${AWS::AccountId}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      BucketName: !Sub '${S3BucketNamePrefix}-${AWS::Region}-${AWS::AccountId}'
```

---
title: 'Pseudo parameters'
date: 2021-12-11T13:36:34Z

> weight: 500

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
weight: 1500
```

---

### Overview

In this lab, you will learn about **[pseudo parameters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html)** and learn how to leverage them for writing reusable templates.

### Topics Covered

By the end of this lab, you will be able to:

+ Leverage pseudo parameters for template portability best practices
+ Identify sample use cases for leveraging pseudo parameters

> When working with CloudFormation templates, one of the things you should aim for is to make templates modular and reusable to facilitate reuse of templates across accounts and regions. In addition to **[CloudFormation parameters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/parameters-section-structure.html)** , you can choose to engineer your template, you can leverage pseudo parameters (LINK) that are parameters predefined by CloudFormation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When working with CloudFormation templates, one of the things you should aim for is to write modular and reusable templates to facilitate reuse of templates across accounts and regions. In addition to **[CloudFormation parameters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/parameters-section-structure.html)** , you can choose to engineer your template, you can leverage pseudo parameters (LINK) that are parameters predefined by CloudFormation.
```

    * Returns the Account ID of the Account where the stack is being deployed to
* **[AWS::Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html#cfn-pseudo-param-region)**
    * Returns the AWS Region where the Stack is deployed to
* **[AWS::Partition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html#cfn-pseudo-param-partition)**
    * Returns the partition of AWS where the stack is deployed to. For standard AWS Regions, the partition is aws. For resources in other partitions, the partition is aws-partitionname. For example, the partition for resources in the China (Beijing and Ningxia) Region is aws-cn and the partition for resources in the AWS GovCloud (US-West)) region is aws-us-gov.  

For more information on available pseudo parameters, see the **[pseudo parameters reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html)** in the documentation.

Let’s walk through an example of how to leverage pseudo parameters.

### Start Lab

> Context: **[Parameter Store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html#what-is-a-parameter)**, a capability of AWS Systems Manager, provides secure, hierarchical storage for configuration data management and secrets management. A Parameter Store parameter is any piece of data that is saved in Parameter Store, such as a block of text, a list of names, a password, an AMI ID, a license key, and so on. You can centrally and securely reference this data in your scripts, commands, and SSM documents. Let’s say you want to define AWS::SSM::Parameter resource in a CloudFormation template. Then you want to reference that SSM parameter in an IAM policy. This will require you to know the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the SSM parameter. First, you check the return values section for the resource (the SSM parameter in this case): in the relevant **[documentation page](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ssm-parameter.html#aws-resource-ssm-parameter-return-values)** you see that `Fn::Ref` returns the parameter name, and `Fn::GetAtt` returns the type and the value. Let's see an example of leveraging pseudo parameters to construct the ARN.

Reviewer: Resolving this conversation: please instead refer to the comment I placed with suggested updates.

> Context: **[Parameter Store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html#what-is-a-parameter)**, a capability of AWS Systems Manager, provides secure, hierarchical storage for configuration data management and secrets management. A Parameter Store parameter is any piece of data that is saved in Parameter Store, such as a block of text, a list of names, a password, an AMI ID, a license key, and so on. You can centrally and securely reference this data in your scripts, commands, and SSM documents. Let’s say you want to define AWS::SSM::Parameter resource in a CloudFormation template. Then you want to reference that SSM parameter in an IAM policy. This will require you to know the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the SSM parameter. First, you check the return values section for the resource (the SSM parameter in this case): in the relevant **[documentation page](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ssm-parameter.html#aws-resource-ssm-parameter-return-values)** you see that `Fn::Ref` returns the parameter name, and `Fn::GetAtt` returns the type and the value. Let's see an example of leveraging pseudo parameters to construct the ARN.

Reviewer: Resolving this conversation: please instead refer to the comment I placed with suggested updates.

> Context: **[Parameter Store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html#what-is-a-parameter)**, a capability of AWS Systems Manager, provides secure, hierarchical storage for configuration data management and secrets management. A Parameter Store parameter is any piece of data that is saved in Parameter Store, such as a block of text, a list of names, a password, an AMI ID, a license key, and so on. You can centrally and securely reference this data in your scripts, commands, and SSM documents. Let’s say you want to define AWS::SSM::Parameter resource in a CloudFormation template. Then you want to reference that SSM parameter in an IAM policy. This will require you to know the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the SSM parameter. First, you check the return values section for the resource (the SSM parameter in this case): in the relevant **[documentation page](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ssm-parameter.html#aws-resource-ssm-parameter-return-values)** you see that `Fn::Ref` returns the parameter name, and `Fn::GetAtt` returns the type and the value. Let's see an example of leveraging pseudo parameters to construct the ARN.

Reviewer: Please refer to my suggested updates above, to replace the content for that given line (45).

For the DemoRole, under the Policies property, change the Resource: `*` portion to the following:

```yaml
Resource: !Sub 'arn:${AWS::Partition}:ssm:${AWS::Region}:${AWS::AccountId}:parameter/${BasicParameter}'
```

In the Resource definition above, instead of using a `*` for Resource, you can construct the ARN of the SSM Parameter you defined above. To construct the ARN for SSM parameter, you use the AWS::Partition, AWS::Region, and AWS::AccountId pseudo parameters. The intrinsic function    **[Fn::Sub](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-sub.html)** lets you substitute variables in an input string with values that you specify. In this case, you can make use of !Sub intrinsic function to substitute the values of the pseudo parameters to the ARN pattern of the SSM parameter.

> Finally, add this section below to the template. This will define a Lambda function which uses the IAM Role you defined above with permissions to read the SSM parameter which you also defined above. You will invoke this Lambda function to test if the Lambda function can access the SSM parameter named dbUsername you defined above.

Reviewer 3: Instead of using a `*` for Resource in the Resource definition above, you can construct the ARN of the SSM Parameter you defined above. To construct the ARN for SSM parameter, you use the AWS::Partition, AWS::Region, and AWS::AccountId pseudo parameters. The intrinsic function **[Fn::Sub](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-sub.html)** lets you substitute variables in an input string with values that you specify. In this case, you can make use of !Sub intrinsic function to substitute the values of the pseudo parameters to the ARN pattern of the SSM parameter. 	 
  
 
 	 
  
Finally, add this section below to the template. This section defines a Lambda function that uses the IAM Role you defined above with permissions to read the SSM parameter, which you also defined above. You will invoke this Lambda function to test if the Lambda function can access the SSM parameter named dbUsername you defined above.

* Choose to accept the *Configure stack options* default value, choose *Next*.
* On the *Review <stack_name>* page, scroll down to the bottom and choose both *IAM Capabilities* check boxes. i.e. CAPABILITY_IAM and CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM
* Choose *Create stack*. You can view the progress of the stack being created in CloudFormation console.
* Wait until the stack creation is complete. Refresh the view in the console until you see in the status CREATE_COMPLETE.

![resources-png](pseudo-parameters/resources.png)

Let’s verify the IAM permission works as intended. Under the resource tab of CloudFormation Stack like in the picture above, you’ll find the DemoRole you described with the template above.

Choose to follow the link to the Physical ID of the DemoRole. Expand the inline policy under Policy name section.

![role-png](pseudo-parameters/role.png)

You’ll then see the IAM policy you described with the CloudFormation template. You can verify that the SSM Parameter ARN has been constructed properly as you expected.

![policy-png](pseudo-parameters/policy.png)

On the Resources tab, you’ll also find the Lambda function that you described with the template above

> Choose to follow the link to the Physical ID of the Lambda function. **[Deploy and test/invoke the Lambda function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/getting-started-create-function.html#get-started-invoke-manually)**. After you invoke the Lambda function, under Function Logs you will see some output text like the example below:

Author: Added intention for invoking lambda function.

**Task:** Describe an S3 bucket resource in your template, and use a combination of CloudFormation parameters and pseudo parameters to construct the bucket name like in the example above. You want to add a prefix for the bucket name, passed in as a CloudFormation parameter, so that your bucket name will be composed as follows: `${yourprefix}-${AWS::AccountId}-${AWS::Region}`

{{%expand "Need a hint?" %}}

- See the documentation for [CloudFormation parameters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/parameters-section-structure.html) and define the parameter for s3 bucket prefix in a similar way.
- CloudFormation parameters are referenced in a similar way to how we referenced pseudo parameters inside of the `!Sub` function above. For example, if your parameter name is `S3BucketNamePrefix` you can reference this inside of `!Sub` function as follows `!Sub '${S3BucketNamePrefix}'`

{{% /expand %}}

{{%expand "Want to see the solution?" %}}
```YAML

> # add a parameter that will let users input a prefix to be used with s3 buckets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Add a template parameter that will let users input a bucket name prefix
```

Parameters:
  S3BucketNamePrefix:
    AllowedPattern: ^[0-9a-zA-Z]+([0-9a-zA-Z-]*[0-9a-zA-Z])*$

>     ConstraintDescription: Quick Start bucket name can include numbers, lowercase

Reviewer: As mentioned: remove description text that is out of this lab's context.

      letters, uppercase letters, and hyphens (-). It cannot start or end with a hyphen
      (-).
    Description: The prefix to use for your S3 bucket
    Type: String
    MinLength: 3
    Default: my-demo-bucket

Resources:
  DemoBucket:
      Type: 'AWS::S3::Bucket'
      Properties:
        BucketName: !Sub '${S3BucketNamePrefix}-${AWS::Region}-${AWS::AccountId}'
```

> See `code/solutions/pseudo-parameters.yaml` for the full solution.

Reviewer: You will need to update the path, and include the sub directory where the solution template will be.

{{% /expand %}}

> Make sure you test your solution and verify everything works as intended. You can verify by first [updating the stack](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-direct.html) you created earlier using the updated template. If the stack update succeeds, check if the S3 bucket with the name ${yourprefix}-${AWS::AccountId}-${AWS::Region} is created. If so, this proves that pseudo parameters were used to construct the S3 bucket name and shows you’ve completed the challenge successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test your solution, to verify it worked as you expected. First, [update the stack](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/using-cfn-updating-stacks-direct.html) you created earlier: choose to use the template whose content you updated. Wait until the stack update operation succeeds, and verify your S3 bucket uses the `YOUR_BUCKET_NAME_PREFIX-AWS_REGION_YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID` format.
```

### Clean up

Follow these steps to clean up created resources:

>   * In the CloudFormation console, select the stack you have created in this lab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * In the CloudFormation console, choose the stack you have created in this lab.
```

>   * In the top right corner, click on Delete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Choose **Delete** to delete the stack you created in this lab.
```

>     In the pop-up window click on Delete stack.

Reviewer: remove this line

---
### Conclusion

> Great job! Now you know how to use pseudo parameters to make your CloudFormation templates more reusable. For more information, see pseudo parameters [documentation page](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great job! You have learned how to use pseudo parameters to write reusable CloudFormation templates. For more information, see pseudo parameters [documentation page](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html).
```
